.Dd February 2, 2014
.Dt asm-trace \&1 "asm-trace Manual"
.Os " "
.Sh NAME
.Nm ASM-TRACE
.Nd instrument assembler files to print trace data
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm ASM-TRACE
asm-file trace-file [ACTIONS]...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
instruments assembler files (such as those produced by "gcc -S") to
save a trace of their execution.  Every code label in the assembler
file is instrumented to print it's name to a file named `trace.out'
every time the label is executed.
.Pp
.
.Sh ACTIONS
.Nm
performs the following actions.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width ".." -compact
.It Cm inst
instrument the user supplied asm-file with instructions to print a
trace of the labels used during execution.  Trace is written to user
supplied trace-file.
.Pp
.It Cm label
expand the label trace in trace-file through all executed instructions
in asm-file resulting in a line trace of all executed instructions.
Expansion propagates trace counts from labels through contiguous
subsequent non-branching asm instructions.
.Pp
.It Cm prop
propagate a line trace of executed assembly instructions to referenced
labels in the data section of the assembly file.
.
.Pp
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Pp
Instrument a program for tracing
.Pp
.Dl asm-trace w-func.s trace.out inst >w-func.inst.s
.Pp
Run the instrumented program and view executed labels.
.Pp
.Dl gcc -o w-func.inst w-func.inst.s
.Dl ./w-func.inst >/dev/null
.Dl cat trace.out
.Pp
View annotations alongside the original assembler.  Both dta and code
portions are traced.
.Pp
.Bd
  cat trace.out|sort|uniq -c >counts
  paste <(asm-trace plain.s counts label prop) plain.s
      0               .file   "plain.c"
      0               .section        .rodata
      1       .LC0:
      1               .string "right %d\n"
      0       .LC1:
      0               .string "left  %d\n"
      0               .text
      0               .globl  main
      0               .type   main, @function
      0       main:
      1       .LFB0:
      1               .cfi_startproc
      1               pushq   %rbp
      1               .cfi_def_cfa_offset 16
      1               .cfi_offset 6, -16
      1               movq    %rsp, %rbp
.Ed
.Pp
.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
.Pp
Written by Eric Schulte.
.Pp
