.Dd February 2, 2014
.Dt ur \&1 "ur Manual"
.Os " "
.Sh NAME
.Nm UR
.Nd make x86 assembler unreliable
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm ur
-[t|d] [-u RATE] [-r SOURCE] [-iSUFFIX] [file]
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
transforms x86 assembler replacing cmp instructions with unreliable
counterparts which do the wrong thing with a user specified
probability.
.Pp
.Nm
processes a text assembly file as with sed, replacing cmp instructions
with an assembler macro which simulates unreliable behavior by
randomly assigning the flags set by the cmp instruction.  These flags
are often used to condition subsequent conditional jumps.
.Pp
.Nm
may be invoked in the same manner as the sed utility either reading
input from STDIN, or from a file given as the last argument on the
command line.
.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options change the default
.Nm
behavior.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width ".." -compact
.It Cm -u RATE
simulate unreliable behavior RATE fraction of the time where RATE is a
decimal between 0 and 1 inclusive.  Default to a RATE of 0.1.
.Pp
.It Cm -t
print tracing information every time a cmp instruction is simulated.
For each cmp instruction taken either print "r" when the normal
"reliable" behavior is simulated or print "u" when "unreliable"
behavior is simulated by randomly setting all flags after the
comparison operation.
.Pp
.It Cm -d
add labels for debugging.  Useful as gdb breakpoints.
.Pp
.It Cm -r SOURCE
read random bits from SOURCE.  Defaults to /dev/urandom.
.Pp
.It Cm -i[SUFFIX]
alter specified file in place as with the -i option to sed.  If
optional SUFFIX is specified save a back of the original file with the
SUFFIX extension.
.
.Pp
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Pp
Pipe the assembler compiled with gcc through
.Nm
passing the results back to gcc for linking into an executable.  All
cmp instructions in the resulting executable will return random
results 1/10th of the time.
.Pp
.Dl gcc -S etc/printer.c -o -|./ur|gcc -x assembler - -o etc/printer-ur
.Pp
To demonstrate the effect, run the resulting executable a couple of
hundred times with the following.
.Pp
.Dl for i in {0..1000};do ./etc/printer-ur;done|grep -c "1 > 2"
.Pp
.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
.Pp
Written by Eric Schulte.
.Pp
